docs/prerequisites/secondary-scheduler.md, before:

# Secondary Scheduler Operator

**Last Updated:** 2026-01-22

The Secondary Scheduler Operator allows you to deploy a custom scheduler alongside the default Red Hat OpenShift scheduler.

To install the Secondary Scheduler Operator for Red Hat OpenShift, use the web console.

## Procedure

1. Log in to the Red Hat OpenShift web console
2. Create the required namespace for the Secondary Scheduler Operator for Red Hat OpenShift
   a. Navigate to **Administration Namespaces** and click **Create Namespace**
   b. Enter `openshift-secondary-scheduler-operator` in the **Name** field and click **Create**

3. Install the Secondary Scheduler Operator for Red Hat OpenShift
   a. Navigate to **Operators >OperatorHub**
   b. Enter **Secondary Scheduler Operator for Red Hat OpenShift** into the filter box.
   c. Select the **Secondary Scheduler Operator for Red Hat OpenShift** and click **Install**.
   d. On the **Install Operator** page:
      i. The **Update channel** is set to **stable**, which installs the latest stable release of the Secondary Scheduler Operator for Red Hat OpenShift
      ii. Select **A specific namespace on the cluster** and select **openshift-secondary-scheduler-operator** from the drop-down menu
      iii. Select an **Update approval** strategy
         - The **Automatic** strategy allows Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM) to automatically update the Operator when a new version is available
         - The **Manual** strategy requires a user with appropriate credentials to approve the Operator update
         - Click **Install**

4. Navigate to **Operators >Installed Operators**
5. Verify that the **Secondary Scheduler Operator for Red Hat OpenShift** is listed with a **Status** of **Succeeded**

## Parent topic:

[Prerequisites on Red Hat OpenShift using OperatorHub](prerequisites.md)

Commit message:

docs: cleanup docs after installation exercise
cleanup docs after installation exercise

Signed-off-by: Lance barto <lance.barto@ibm.com>

docs/prerequisites/secondary-scheduler.md, after:

# Secondary Scheduler Operator

**Last Updated:** 2026-01-22

The Secondary Scheduler Operator allows you to deploy a custom scheduler alongside the default Red Hat OpenShift scheduler.

To install the Secondary Scheduler Operator for Red Hat OpenShift, use the web console.

## Procedure

1. Log in to the Red Hat OpenShift web console
2. Create the required namespace for the Secondary Scheduler Operator for Red Hat OpenShift
   a. Navigate to **Administration Namespaces** and click **Create Namespace**
   b. Enter `openshift-secondary-scheduler-operator` in the **Name** field and click **Create**

3. Install the Secondary Scheduler Operator for Red Hat OpenShift
   a. Navigate to **Operators >OperatorHub**
   b. Enter **Secondary Scheduler Operator for Red Hat OpenShift** into the filter box.
   c. Select the **Secondary Scheduler Operator for Red Hat OpenShift** and click **Install**.
   d. On the **Install Operator** page:
      i. The **Update channel** is set to **stable**, which installs the latest stable release of the Secondary Scheduler Operator for Red Hat OpenShift
      ii. Select **A specific namespace on the cluster** and select **openshift-secondary-scheduler-operator** from the drop-down menu
      iii. Select an **Update approval** strategy
         - The **Automatic** strategy allows Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM) to automatically update the Operator when a new version is available
         - The **Manual** strategy requires a user with appropriate credentials to approve the Operator update
         - Click **Install**

4. Navigate to **Operators >Installed Operators**
5. Verify that the **Secondary Scheduler Operator for Red Hat OpenShift** is listed with a **Status** of **Succeeded**

> NOTE: You *may* need to create the appropriate namespace for the secondary scheduler operator installation. If the namespace `openshift-secondary-scheduler-operator` is not present, you will have to create the namespace with the following command before the installation:

```bash
oc create namespace openshift-secondary-scheduler-operator
```

## Parent topic:

[Prerequisites on Red Hat OpenShift using OperatorHub](prerequisites.md)
